[DOCU-2556] Streamlined Gateway Creation in Customer Cloud Provider (#4557)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: app/konnect/runtime-manager/runtime-instances/gateway-runtime-aws.md

alpha: true
---

Set up a AWS runtime instance through the
[{{site.konnect_short_name}} Runtime Manager](/konnect/runtime-manager) and
configure your instance to accept configuration from
{{site.konnect_short_name}}. The Runtime Manager keeps track of all runtime
instances associated with the {{site.konnect_saas}} account.

When you create an AWS runtime instance, runtime manager provides a pre-populated template for the runtime instance in AWS. This template creates the following resources in AWS:
* Amazon VPC along with internet gateway 
* Secret
* Amazon EC2 instances (keypair, role, profile)
* Autoscaling group
* Network Load Balancer
* Optional: CloudWatch log group 
* Optional: Redis 

{:.note}
> **Note:** Kong does not host runtimes. You must install and host your own
runtime instances.

## Prerequisites

* An account with AWS that is already configured
* An account that can use IAM resources

## Configure the AWS Gateway instance

1. Open the {% konnect_icon runtimes %} **Runtime Manager**.

1. Select a runtime group.

1. Click **+ New Runtime Instance**.

1. Click **AWS**.

1. From **AWS Region**, select the region where you want to host the runtime instance.

> <!-- Or can we do just a "configure the fields on the page" ?-->

Reviewer: Should we explain what the fields are instead of saying "configure each thing"? So I agree with "configure the fields on the page", and then maybe a table with field + description.

---
title: Set up a Kong Gateway Runtime with AWS
no_version: true
content_type: how-to
alpha: true
---

Set up a AWS runtime instance through the
[{{site.konnect_short_name}} Runtime Manager](/konnect/runtime-manager) and
configure your instance to accept configuration from
{{site.konnect_short_name}}. The Runtime Manager keeps track of all runtime
instances associated with the {{site.konnect_saas}} account.

Runtime Manager provides a pre-populated template for a runtime instance in AWS. This template creates the following resources in AWS:
* Amazon VPC along with internet gateway 
* Secret
* Amazon EC2 instances (key pair, role, profile)
* Auto Scaling group
* Network Load Balancer
* Optional: CloudWatch log group 
* Optional: Redis 

> {:.note}
> > **Note:** Kong does not host runtimes. You must install and host your own
> runtime instances.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Removing this, since it's a page about setting up a runtime in another cloud provider. It doesn't make sense to say "you must install and host your own" when they're using a cloud provider.

## Prerequisites

* An account with AWS that is already configured
* An account that can use IAM resources

## Configure the AWS Gateway instance

1. Open the {% konnect_icon runtimes %} **Runtime Manager**.

1. Select a runtime group.

1. Click **New Runtime Instance**.

1. Click **AWS**.

1. From **AWS Region**, select the region where you want to host the runtime instance.

1. Configure the fields on the page:

    | Field | Description |
    |---|---|
    | AWS Region | The AWS region where the CloudFormation template should be created. |

>     | Instance type for the gateway runtime instances | The instance type to use for the runtime instance. This must be a valid x86_64 EC2 instance type. You can edit this later in AWS. |

Reviewer: > The instance type to use for the runtime instance.

I know this is from the tooltip, but this sentence tells me nothing. Can we simplify to just:

```suggestion
    | Instance type for the gateway runtime instances | A valid x86_64 EC2 instance type. You can edit this later in AWS. |
```

>     | Create an Elasticache Cluster | This is used for rate limiting plugins. Selecting "Yes" creates an ElastiCache cluster. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    | Create an Elasticache Cluster | This is used for rate limiting plugins. Selecting **Yes** creates an ElastiCache cluster. |
```

>     | Enable Cloud Watch Logs collection | Sets up CloudWatch logs for the {{site.konnect_short_name}} access and error logs. Selecting "Yes" enables log collection. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    | Enable Cloud Watch Logs collection | Sets up CloudWatch logs for the {{site.konnect_short_name}} access and error logs. Selecting **Yes** enables log collection. |
```

>     | Existing VPC ID (Optional) | Enter an existing VPC ID if you don't want to create a new VPC ID. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    | Existing VPC ID (Optional) | Enter an existing VPC ID, or leave blank to generate a new VPC ID. |
```

>     | Existing Subnet IDs (Optional) | Enter an existing subnet ID if you don't want to create a new subnet ID. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    | Existing Subnet IDs (Optional) | Enter an existing subnet ID, or leave blank to generate a new subnet ID. |
```
